I'm going to talk to you about streaming
it of intervals in in je s and J si via
this I'm going to explain a little bit
about the types of these sources
transform sinks and duplex is and that's
all for now and so it all started with
iterators and lots of things in
JavaScript are iterable at the moment
like sets maps and arrays so typically
you'd have like some things like some
data and if you wanted to get an
iterable out of your data you just call
the function for it so you treat it and
that will give you back an iterator and
then with that you can just call next
and you can call that until it's done
and I get out the values I get back an
object which tells me if it's done or
not but it was to get the values out of
that array and then I can keep calling
that until until it's done
and it's also kind of cool because I can
use it in in for loops and then and and
what the for loop will do was it will
unpack that object that it gets back and
give me the value so I don't I don't get
that value done thing I just get the
value and it automatically finishes the
loop when everything is done and I get I
get the values which is great so that's
iterators or iterables
and then what happened is that async
Ettore iterators came along and and
instead of next returning an object
that's just done and the value it
returns a promise of that object so now
our thing that we're getting data
relative can asynchronously give us
things and so what else do we know that
yield things asynchronously and streams
so what we can do now is we can use a
language native thing to stream data
without any libraries in the browser so
that's super fun and it's really easy I
so this is a an iterable that I made
called which I called infinite Rand
because it it it yields a random numbers
forever so that's kind of cool and what
you all you can do with with async
iterables is you can use a for a wait
loops and then I can just get every
value so this is the iterator we're
saying every give me every value out of
this infinite random and it will just
keep chugging and chugging and chugging
and giving me random values so let's
have a look I can just place this into
here and it will just kind of
occasionally spurt out some random
random values which is cool it's just
easy because streaming is now like it's
a for loop it like you don't you no
longer have to think about like nodejs
streams and like attaching data events
and touching end events and piping them
to places and stuff like that it's it's
it's just a for loop this is one of the
first things you learn when you're a
programmer and so alright that's great
umm but wait a minute we it's not just
we didn't just read from streams we also
write to them and we also have streams
that can take some data and transform it
and spit out some data and then in
network stuff we have duplex streams so
we can have kind of not really connected
data to servers and back and vice-versa
so we need the whole family of streams
and so sources is what I've been talking
about so far it's just a it's just an
async iterable so that's what we've
called a source a sync is just a
function so here we've got like a logger
sync and it the function is just a
function and it takes a source and then
it does something with it it usually
consumes it because otherwise it's a bit
useless and then optionally it can
return something so this is this logger
sync takes the source iterates over it
and logs out each value is kind of like
what we did just a second ago with the
random random thing but we've kind of
formalized it as a thing a transform is
is a kind of sync and a source because
it takes it so this is our transform the
doubler thing here and it it takes a
source and it returns so I'm not gonna
get into generators but generators when
you call
they will return you a and in this
because an async generates it or return
you an async iterable and what we what
it does is it just suspends a execution
of function until it anyways matter the
point is it it takes a source and it
returns an async iterable so it's just a
function that returns an async iterable
so that's kind of cool that's a
transform and then we have duplex which
is kind of the weird one because it's
actually an object which has a source
and a sink and it's kind of like a
transform like you can model a transform
as a duplex that where these two things
are connected in some way so kind of fun
and then so what you will typically do
because I'm I didn't show you the things
I mean so what we can do here I can just
take these so this is the transform
which doubles my randomness so if I
paste that in instead of getting like
zero dot values I'll get doubled doubled
randoms and so that's kind of fun there
we go and then so often you kind of want
and some utilities and things for
working with async iterators because one
of the most useful things that you might
want is pipe because you you kind of
sometimes have these pipelines of
streams that you kind of want to keep
separate as different different kind of
discrete pieces of functionality but you
don't want to have to like like stuff
like this where we've got we've got this
the the the source is being passed into
the doubler they're being passed into
the logger like you just have this big
long like function cool chain and it's
actually a little bit easier to see it
as as something like this
so we can we can use a thing called pipe
and then other utilities like the the
just modules that we create it stands
for iterable like last really useful
when so I bet has a Dinge a cyberfest
now is a it's it returns an async
iterable and actually when you add stuff
to ipfs you can't if you're adding lots
of files you want the last item from the
iturra iterator so you might want to use
that it target has get returns tar
and updater you have to antar it or
pack it either way it Claude is useful
when you're you want to add like files
from your file system and it might want
to global rule files and it just gives
you back stuff and often what we do in
ipfs is prefix things with variants and
so you might want some utilities like
that
so we made loads of these in the process
of async/await and then i made a list of
them at awesome because they are all
awesome what's really awesome is that
there's a lot of these a lot of these
utilities are going to be kind of
defunct because actually async iterators
I like what they are due to get there's
a proposal for them to get a whole lot
of utilities so you'll just be able to
so for like there's a utility called it
all which collects all of the items in
an iterable like buffers them up and but
I think iterables will have like a two
array function that you can just await
on and then and that would do it for you
and then you wouldn't need you don't
need the modules you don't need half of
them so some of them are temporary but
yeah anyway and so streaming iterables
as I've explained them they're really
quickly in hopefully less than five
minutes I kind of underpin all of the
streaming in JSI bfsd asleep p2p and III
LD as well and that's all I have
[Applause]